[AUDIO LOGO]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well, welcome
to the "Beyond Belief."
There are a lot of filmmakers
and artists who do great jobs,
but none like Ben Stewart.
A pioneer in the
consciousness field of art.
He has produced docuseries
like "Kymatica,"
"Psychedelica," "Limitless,"
"The Magic Plant" film,
"DMT Quest" and "Awake in
the Darkness," and he's
also the host of
Limitless on Gaia.
Ben, welcome back.
>>BEN STEWART:
Thank you so much.
It's good to be back, George.
>>GEORGE: I had so
much response when
you were on when we talked about
"Psychedelica" a few years ago.
>>STEWART: Yeah.
I think there was a
bigger response when
we talked about 5G.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
They love that.
>>STEWART: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: And it's here.
>>STEWART: It is.
It's definitely here and
Popular Mechanics just
came out with a
6G article saying
that humans might
be the antennas
to suck up the waste energy.
So it's moving fast, this world.
>>GEORGE: Tonight,
we're here to talk
about unlocking codes within.
What are the codes within?
>>STEWART: Do you play
video games or have you?
>>GEORGE: I used to
when I was a kid.
>>STEWART: So in video games--
>>GEORGE: Pong--
>>STEWART: OK.
Yeah.
A little more
advanced than that.
But you're controlling
this avatar inside
of the video game.
And there's codes to make
them do what they do.
And oftentimes,
the coders will put
like a special code in there.
At the right time, if you
press the right buttons,
it'll unlock deeper potentials
inside that character.
That's the metaphor
that I'm using when I
say, unlocking codes within us.
>>GEORGE: Sure.
>>STEWART: They're not
exactly computer codes,
but they're not too dissimilar.
And it's the moments that
we live through that call
upon what codes
need to come out.
And I think this
world is heading
into some types
of crises that are
going to call upon different
codes from humanity.
>>GEORGE: Who has implanted
these codes within us?
>>STEWART: That's the
million-dollar question.
Many call it creator,
great spirit.
Some people think
this is a matrix
and that we or our future selves
have plugged us into the matrix
to get us to learn lessons
that we need to learn
for us to mature as a species.
But I can't say that I
have the answer to that.
But I do know that in
the same way that--
I don't need to know how
a smartphone is built,
I just need to
know how to use it.
And then I can access all
the information there within.
So there are ways that we can
access and unlock these codes
inside.
>>GEORGE: Is it
happening too fast?
>>STEWART: I think when
history seems to speed up,
it's doing that for a reason.
And it's here to show us that
the old world or the old order
is coming to an end,
which it absolutely is.
And that's calling upon
different gifts within us.
And when a lot of
people, they hear codes,
unlocking higher
human potential,
they think we should be
levitating and shooting
laser beams out of our eyes.
But that's not what
humanity needs right now.
We actually need the superpowers
of forgiveness, compassion,
because most people
right now are
looking at their own brothers
and sisters and neighbors
as an enemy rather
than somebody that
is a part of their
community to help us get
through the hard times coming.
>>GEORGE: You're
absolutely right.
More people should be
thinking the way you do.
We'd have a better planet.
>>STEWART: Well, I hope that
what's happening on planet
Earth is going to make
it obvious for everybody.
That we need each other in ways
that we couldn't understand
over the past 100 years.
And even in the past 70
years since the Bretton Woods
agreement of World
War II, the US
started patrolling the
waters to make sure
that all shipping was safe.
And with that, millions
upon billions of people
started populating areas that
for every other scenario,
they would not be able
to sustain themselves.
And so we're living in this
kind of a fragile system.
And what I feel is happening
is when history seems like it's
moving quick and there's a
lot of humbling that's coming,
it's because we're
coming to realize
that this order that
we've been living in,
this kind of halcyon
era, is coming to an end.
>>GEORGE: The genome
sequence, which
has given us our own DNA codes.
Is that a little different
from what you're talking
about right now?
Or is it the same?
>>STEWART: When I'm
talking about codes
that-- it doesn't have
nothing to do with DNA
but it is a little bit deeper
into the fabric of who we are.
DNA is still not
even understood.
>>GEORGE: No.
>>STEWART: Back in the
'90s, Alan and Iona Miller
discovered that there are
wormholes inside of our DNA.
And it's drawing
upon information
from outside spacetime.
And then you hear
people like Eric Dollard
who's been studying the
sun for quite some time.
And says that the
sun is actually
doing the very same thing.
It's drawing upon information
from outside spacetime.
So there's some
interesting correlation
here where the sun can
unlock codes within us,
the Earth can unlock
codes within us.
But it's mainly when
history demands it.
And that's what I
feel like is coming.
History is going to demand
brand new gifts for humanity
to come out.
>>GEORGE: How do
you think we got
the DNA codes, put within us?
Was that something God-given?
>>STEWART: Again,
this is a part of
that million-dollar question.
Who and what are we?
A lot of people would say
that we share so much DNA--
>>GEORGE: We don't know.
>>STEWART: --with a fruit fly.
You know, so we might be the
highest evolutionary peak
to date of all
creatures that have
come before us on this planet.
In utero, we were
aquatic for one,
we show reptilian, mammalian.
We show all these kinds
of evolutionary steps.
And then in nine months, it's
almost like in that bath,
we are given all the
information that we need
to carry it forward as a human.
So our DNA does have
codes inside of it.
And that is part of what
I'm talking about when
I'm saying unlocking it.
But there are codes
of the Earth that
are being unlocked right now.
And it doesn't come from
physical material like DNA.
>>GEORGE: Can we
unlock these codes?
>>STEWART: We must.
It's more than just, can we?
We absolutely can.
Many of them are going to
be unlocked without us even
wishing it.
And I think that's actually
what's happening right now.
When we feel history
is speeding up,
when we feel that there
is a polycrisis that we're
experiencing not just
in the economic sense,
but in the existential
sense, then what's happening
is these codes are unlocking.
And we're coming to realize
on a subconscious level,
that what brought
us to this point,
this old story is
coming to an end,
and something new is coming.
That makes a lot
of people scared.
Because we want to know
what the future has for us.
We don't like to step
into the unknown.
We'd rather live in a
comfortable form of slavery
than step into the unknown
with all the wonder that
might come from that.
>>GEORGE: Who would
unlock the codes, Ben?
>>STEWART: We unlock the code.
>>GEORGE: We do it.
>>STEWART: And socially,
we unlock these codes.
So we have our own
individual codes.
Like for me, if I were to
meditate every day, which I do
and just go through my
own personal practices,
I can unlock higher
gifts and abilities.
But there are certain things
that no one individual
should have this gift.
And the Native Americans
did their dance
and their ceremonies, they
would ingest certain plants,
they would do it under
certain astrological signs
to unlock social codes.
This could change climate,
this could bring in information
about where the game is, where
to forage, what kind of food
to have, what the future
is going to bring.
And think of Pink Floyd.
Those are all great musicians.
But no one of them
could do what they
could do when they're together.
That's a metaphor.
>>GEORGE: Together,
they made it happen.
>>STEWART: They did.
And they defined an entire era.
Not just of music, but
people were awakening back
in those days when they
were still touring together.
There was a magic that
only they could unlock.
And they would do it in a room
with thousands or hundreds
of thousands of people.
And you could argue that Pink
Floyd couldn't unlock that
without the people there
to help that moment happen.
And that's just
talking about art.
And that's just one example.
We have collective
social codes that
I think in the coming
10 years specifically,
are going to be unlocked.
It might be scary to
some, but it's inevitable.
>>GEORGE: Is there an
old story of humanity?
>>STEWART: The old story is one
of thinking that this Earth is
ours to do with, however we--
>>GEORGE: As we please.
>>STEWART: As we please.
It's ours to exploit,
it's inexhaustible.
We can do whatever we want.
That's the old story.
And it brings us all the way to
this tipping point right now.
So these lessons that we're
about to learn in mass
are lessons that our
ancestors authored for us.
They didn't know how it
was going to turn out,
but we really did create this
collective human superorganism
that became very hungry.
It takes a lot of resources
to keep this economic
and this big organism growing.
And now we're going
to start experiencing
that it can't grow anymore.
It's going to have to go into
what's called post-growth
or de-growth.
And we have no historic
example for this.
So we don't know what it's going
to look like on the other side
of this event horizon.
>>GEORGE: Fascinating.
How do we do this
correction to change things?
>>STEWART: It's being corrected.
And I think a lot
of people think
that it's all up to humans.
And a lot of it is.
A lot of this story is
being written by humans,
but how do we correct
what's been happening?
We need to come
face-to-face with it.
We actually need to see
our impact upon the Earth.
Because as of right now, most
people are sitting at homes.
They have their smartphone,
they have their chips,
they have whatever they need,
but they don't understand
the sacrifices over
the past 12,000 years
that it took to get
us to this point
where we could go to
any grocery store,
get any food that
we want, we can get
all the entertainment we want.
And because we don't
understand the sacrifices that
went into it, we don't
even have the ability
to have gratitude for it.
So I think what's
coming is there's
this hard correction coming
where people are going
to be face-to-face with the fact
that this is not sustainable
anymore.
And this doesn't mean
the world is ending.
It's just the world is
ending as we know it.
Many people aren't
going to like it,
but that's because they're
holding on to the old story.
The new story must
come in, but it's not
going to come in until
this chaotic reset period.
And I think that's the 2020s.
And I think this transition
is going to be complete
and the new story will
have started by 2035.
>>GEORGE: People are
acting weird these days.
You see it, I see it.
Does that have anything
to do with this?
>>STEWART: People
are acting weird
because nobody
really understands
the root cause of this.
A lot of it-- we place
blame on the outside world.
We're looking for a bad guy.
This is part of
the old story, too.
This us versus them.
If I'm not fully
comfortable with what's
happening in my life, there's
got to be someone to blame.
So sometimes, we go
into self-loathing
or sometimes we look
outside to be like,
well, it's this nation-state
or it's this economic model.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>STEWART: It's this group.
It's the way these people voted.
When in fact, what
this is, these
are all signs of an
empire in decline.
And we're seeing it right now.
So as people are acting
weird in the streets
towards their fellow men
and brothers and sisters,
I think what we're
coming to realize
is we're starting to
experience a radical transition
from within us.
We don't know how to explain it.
It's causing us anxiety.
And we're looking for
there to be someone
we can blame for all of this.
Because we want it to go back to
normal, but there's no piecing
this back together.
>>GEORGE: Is this going to
create the new story for us?
>>STEWART: Yeah.
The new story is going to emerge
out of how we write the ending.
The next 10 to 15
years, we're writing
the ending of this whole story.
>>GEORGE: Which you have
no idea how it'll end?
>>STEWART: No.
And our children are going
to write the new story.
We may inform it, but
it's our job as parents,
not to step into our
child's way and tell them
how to steer the future.
Our job is to provide backstory
so they can understand
that if we go this route, the
route that we've already gone,
the old story, we're going
to face the same problems.
So we need to evolve.
And that's what's happening.
This is what evolution feels
like when it happens in--
fits and spurts.
It doesn't feel
exactly comfortable,
because we need to transition
from our comfort zone, which
isn't something that we'll
do unless there's a crisis.
Which take a look at
the world, there's
more than just a crisis.
There's a confluence
of problems.
>>GEORGE: It's out of control.
>>STEWART: There's many of them
striking all at the same time.
>>GEORGE: Tell us about
your show, "Limitless."
>>STEWART: In "Limitless--"
>>GEORGE: And it deals
with a lot of this.
Doesn't it?
>>STEWART: It does.
Well, "Limitless" really
deals with human potential.
And what we're
talking about when
we're talking about
human potential
is this continuum
of codes within us.
But in our smaller
mind, if I want
to be able to run faster,
jump higher, things
along those lines,
that doesn't help us
in an evolutionary sense.
That may help me stand
out among the rest,
but that's the story of ego.
That's not what the
Earth needs, that's not
what evolution needs.
So in the show,
"Limitless," I'm really
introducing people to
the fact that we have
far more capacity for goodness.
But I think what the Earth needs
now more than a superhero is
community-wide forgiveness for
all of those trespasses, all
of the violation.
And I mean, forgiveness
of ourselves as well.
Of how we violated the
Earth up until now,
and all can and
will be forgiven.
But there needs to be
a kind of a gesture
like a ceremonial
community-wide gesture.
And that's not something
that I'm even calling for.
It's not something that
somebody can organize.
It has to emerge
naturally, grassroots.
>>GEORGE: Do we have
people on our side
that can help us get this done?
>>STEWART: Yeah.
And I think even--
>>GEORGE: Or they're
going to fight us.
>>STEWART: Well, I mean,
fighting is already happening.
There's already war, there's
already famine in this world.
There's already a
massive amount of issues.
And this isn't
coming from people
that are twisting their
mustache thinking how they can
screw the world a little more.
This is coming
from people trying
to maintain what they have
for their own families.
And at the end of the day,
people in the military,
people in politics, even people
in secret societies, which
there are many, these are
also people with families.
And they don't get off
on mass destruction.
Some of them may, but they're
more the exception to the rule.
I think what we're experiencing
is once this tipping point is
inevitable in most people's
minds, it's already inevitable,
but once people
surrender to the fact
that this tipping point into
the new story is upon us,
then people can start
surrendering to it.
Until they start
surrendering to it,
they're going to keep
fighting against it.
So that's why we
actually need to be
hit with an even harder crisis,
which is why I do believe, even
according to the data but also
a gut feeling that, the next 10
to 15 years, nobody is going
to get out of this unscathed.
>>GEORGE: If you
had an opportunity
to talk to a group of
thinkers, think tank experts,
what would you tell them?
>>STEWART: I would say that we
need to look at global supply
chains, and we need to look
at where people are amassed
in places where they
cannot grow their own food.
Because we need to prepare
for mass migrations.
In sub-Saharan Africa, in
poorer areas of Latin America,
in the Middle East,
these are places
that are going to
get hit the hardest.
And you could say even in
Sri Lanka and Bangladesh,
the doomsday clock
already hit midnight.
So we're sitting here
in relative affluence.
But elsewhere, they're
already experiencing
what I'm talking about.
When it hits a terminal--
>>GEORGE: And they're
not happy about it.
>>STEWART: No.
And most of them look at
America as the cause of it.
When in fact, there
is no singular cause.
This is a very complex
issue that we're facing.
So America has become the
number one dominant superpower,
but we also abuse that.
And when we say America,
America is not one thing.
It's many siloed factions
of intelligence, agencies,
and people.
Many Americans don't agree
with the credo of America.
But America is in the
best possible spot
to actually help with aid
for the rest of the world.
I don't think it's
going to help everybody,
because we had a huge population
boom after World War II.
And we don't even have the
people in the workforce
to make up for it.
And by the way,
these Baby Boomers
are leaving the
workforce right now.
We don't have the population--
>>GEORGE: What are
they doing, Ben?
>>STEWART: In retirement?
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>STEWART: They're looking for
the pensions that aren't there
anymore.
They're looking for their
retirement that isn't there
anymore.
And I won't go down a conspiracy
rabbit hole right now,
but I think that a lot of
the crises that we're facing
are at least, in part,
manufactured or opportunised
in order to muddy the waters
so future generations don't
know exactly how or why this
crisis hit the world so hard.
Because if we look back
15, 20 years from now,
we'll just be like,
oh, well, it's COVID.
And you remember,
Russia and Ukraine.
And oh, yeah.
All these hackers and
supply chains went offline.
And we couldn't have
foreseen this coming.
No, people have been talking
about this for 50 years.
That supply chains are
going to reach this end.
We don't have the fossil fuels
to power the kind of shipping.
Now, they're here.
So we're also in terminal
demographic decline.
We're also reaching
a tipping point
where 350% of World GDP
or what is GWP is in debt.
350% of that.
>>GEORGE: Crazy.
>>STEWART: We're in a musical
chairs situation where
there are not enough chairs to
go around for all the people.
And these people
aren't just going
to magically go away somehow.
That's why I'm seeing
mass migrations, famine.
And I don't say this
to scare anybody.
I do say this--
>>GEORGE: It's true.
>>STEWART: We've stepped into
a world that's unsustainable.
And we're going
to experience both
the ugly and the
beautiful side of that
in the next 10 to 15 years.
My job is to help
people understand
that there are things you can
do on this side of this crisis.
>>GEORGE: Right now.
>>STEWART: Social
capital, community.
Stop worrying about
your bank account.
Really start looking
at how food is
grown in your local community.
Imagine if supply chains
were cut off tomorrow
and we don't have
imports, what would we
do if the shelves were
not stocked anymore?
If gas is still available
but it's at $15 a gallon,
and there's no way you can
even go to vacation in Florida
anymore cheaply.
What happens in a
world like that?
That's just a 30% correction.
Like Great Depression,
that was a 30% correction
in the economy.
And that was the
Great Depression.
We might experience
an extended version
of that for a while, probably
even greater in its intensity.
What we need is community.
That's the only capital we
need more than any other kind.
>>GEORGE: What does
ceremony mean to you, Ben?
>>STEWART: Ceremony
is really-- it's
a daily or a weekly
or a monthly ritual
and a habit in which
we can individually
or collectively imprint
our intention via our heart
upon reality.
So ceremony is, in
many ways, where
it comes from is tribes that
feel grateful that there's
enough game to hunt.
That there's enough stuff to
gather for them to have food
to survive.
So they would have ceremony
to remember their gratitude
for what they already have.
Nowadays, we don't have
institutionalized ceremony.
We have the Olympics.
And we have things like
the Golden Globe Awards.
But these are not
real ceremonies.
We need to understand
forgiveness as a ceremony.
how gratitude comes
about when crisis has emerged.
And some of the poorest
areas in the world, these
are the most grateful people.
I went to Peru with a soccer
ball and I found this tribe,
and we played soccer together.
And the entire--
I think, it was 50, 60
people in the tribe,
they all came out to celebrate
this one soccer ball.
They retired--
>>GEORGE: It's like they've
never seen one before.
>>STEWART: Right?
Their old soccer
ball was a coconut
wrapped in 15 t-shirts
with duct tape around it.
>>GEORGE: Jeez.
>>STEWART: They retired it,
but they didn't throw it away.
There's no such thing as
throwing away in the Amazon.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>STEWART: So they retired
it as a sacred item
that they still
have gratitude for.
What they would do is
they would say, thank you.
You gave us something
to collectively come
and celebrate.
Sports is a ceremony,
if you will.
We've industrialized
it and monetized it,
but ceremony to me is
the way that we're going
to help write the new story.
And it's the only
way to correct some
of the injustices that
are institutionalized
in our system.
>>GEORGE: Sooner than later?
>>STEWART: This decade.
Absolutely.
>>GEORGE: That's soon.
>>STEWART: Worldwide.
Worldwide, this needs
to be institutionalized.
And the reason
why I say ceremony
needs to be institutionalized,
it might seem like it's just
like no, what we really need
is more food and more this.
Yes, I agree with all that.
But if we don't have gratitude,
the lack of gratitude
and the absence of
love leads to war.
It leads to the conflicts
of, my neighbor has food,
my kids are starving.
I don't need to be
the nice guy anymore.
I'm going to go
take what I need.
The difference between having
community and not having
community is that decision.
That decision that I can go
and take whatever I need.
Because what I don't
want to see happening
is this tipping point
leading America back
into being
isolationist, and then
an empire that
goes and takes what
we need from elsewhere who
can't defend themselves.
>>GEORGE: Exactly.
As we move forward,
are we going to get
this done in your opinion?
>>STEWART: I think
it's inevitable.
It's inevitable that we're
already facing the crisis.
It's inevitable that
people are going
to wake up to there's
no avoiding the crisis.
And it's going to streamline.
We are a highly
resilient people.
We've come through--
what was it?
300,000 years, we were nomads.
And then 12,000 years
ago, we stopped wandering.
>>GEORGE: And look
what happened.
>>STEWART: We
stayed in one place.
>>GEORGE: We exploded.
>>STEWART: Yeah.
Civilization started.
Cultural diversity, cities,
urbanization, and also
living off of the
wealth of surplus.
Our ancestors, they
never had surplus before.
So now, we've gotten
to an extreme where
we need to be
resilient again, but we
have no reference point for
what we're about to experience.
Because we've seen
Rome collapse,
we have historical examples
of empires collapsing.
But not when it's globalized and
not when we are so dependent.
Half the world's population
is dependent upon imports
to survive.
Let alone just have fun.
So we're going to be humbled,
but we're also exceedingly
resilient as a people.
So we will make it through this.
And our children, they
are the number one reason
why we in our generation
need to be very resilient.
Because they don't need us
to come through this highly
traumatized.
Because then we're just going
to keep passing it down.
>>GEORGE: Ben, explain
apoptosis to us.
What does that mean?
>>STEWART: Apoptosis
in cellular biology
is cells that are
programmed to die.
And the reason why our
cells die inside of our body
is to pave way and to liberate
resources for new cells
to come about.
It's the same thing
with humanity.
With eight billion
people on this planet,
especially, as hungry
for resources as we are,
we can't maintain it.
So we may see massive die-offs
due to the famine that I
was talking about,
mass migrations, war.
All these things happen
in these crisis periods.
These things start to
flare up, and there
may be a point where there are
too many bodies for us to have
individual funerals anymore.
This is going to be exceedingly
difficult for us to watch.
>>GEORGE: There's no more land.
>>STEWART: We have a lot of land
and a lot of resources left.
The issue is the distribution.
Like in America, we are the best
geographically located spot.
So we-- let's say, all
supply chains shut down.
We have more than enough
food in this country.
We have more than
enough to keep trading--
>>GEORGE: We're lucky.
>>STEWART: --as well.
We are very lucky.
The issue is going to be
when we have a surplus here,
but we don't have the cheap
and easy way to ship it to Sri
Lanka and Bangladesh
and Ecuador,
so we have surplus and they
don't-- yet we get to watch it
on our smartphones,
streaming live on YouTube.
That's something that I
think is going to happen.
And this is going to impress
upon us luckier demographics
that this was for
one, inevitable.
And this is where
the wealth gap really
starts to become very evident.
So we're going to
see what it means
for us to thrive while
others can barely survive.
And again, I don't say
this to scare anyone.
But these are the realities
that we must wake up to.
We are not going to get
through this situation
without humility and
without boundaries.
And I think that's mainly
what I'm talking about here.
Mother Earth and reality
is humbling humanity.
And without humility,
we'll just keep
thinking that we
can take whatever
we want from the Earth
with no consequence.
>>GEORGE: Ben, what
are false awakenings?
We keep hearing
that all the time.
>>STEWART: An awakening
implies that we're
asleep to some part of reality.
And you wake up
to it, therefore,
you have a clarity of
what reality really is.
So we are in an awakening.
As we're leading
towards this awakening,
the old story disguises
itself as the new story.
And it starts popping
up in these ways.
I'll give two examples.
One is flat Earth.
And I'm not actually pushing
against the researchers that
are researching flat
Earth, because they're
finding anomalies from NASA,
all the way to Antarctica.
There's a lot to be said
about their research.
The false part of
their awakening
comes in when they supplant
this worldview of around Earth
to, OK, I know what the
world is now, because I've
researched some stuff online.
I know what's flat, I know
there's a dome up there.
That's where the
false part comes in,
where we get so
convinced that because we
see some anomalies of
things online, that now we
know exactly what the world is.
It's that part where
we are convinced
of the conclusion
rather than just diving
into the black hole
of the question.
So here's the key
about false awakenings.
We're not here to choose a
door of what the new reality is
going to look like,
because we're still
swimming in the old story.
So we are awakening,
but we're trying
to come to a conclusion
of what it means
so we can hedge our bets
and so we can feel safer
about the future.
That's the false part of it.
And that's what's
inevitably going
to fail like a house of cards.
Because none of these
false awakenings
have a truly written story yet.
Like I said, our children are
going to write the new story.
We're just going to help them.
>>GEORGE: Do you believe
that humanity is an organism?
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
It's an organism,
and every nation
is an organ within
that organism.
Every person is a cell
within that organism.
And I think the Earth
itself is waking up.
And many people think that we
are disconnected from Earth
in a way where we are
not a part of nature.
But we are.
We can't live without nature.
It's obvious that there's
microbes in the soil.
What do you know?
There's microbes in our gut.
We can't live without
those microbes.
>>GEORGE: That's right.
>>STEWART: And back to DNA,
most of the DNA in our body
is not human.
It's actually microbial,
and even the mitochondria
in our brown fat, it's called
brown because it's so densely
packed with mitochondria.
That's foreign or
alien DNA inside of us.
So we, ourselves,
are a superorganism.
And the Earth itself is
sending us messages and codes.
And they are being unlocked,
even on unconscious levels.
>>GEORGE: Are there a couple of
groups out there trying to do
better and worse for us?
>>STEWART: I think the
groups that we're looking at
is, it's almost like
cellular mitosis.
Mitosis in a cell is when a cell
splits and divides into two.
I think that's happening
with our species.
But we're seeing it on a social
and cultural level first.
We're seeing it in
arguments on social media.
>>GEORGE: What-- and the hate.
>>STEWART: Yeah.
And that's a
byproduct of the fact
that we don't get
what's happening.
We don't understand
in our small mind.
The larger more collective
mind understands what this is.
And it's a painful
like labor process.
But the two groups
are the tech-infused
or the transhumanists.
And the other one would be like
the purist or the naturalist.
The ones that want to
stick with biology.
And their guiding
philosophies is
for the tech-infused
or the transhumanists,
they believe that we are
better than our bodies,
and we don't need
our biological bodies
and we're more suited
for technology.
There's an element
of truth in that.
But it's not completely true.
And then the other side of
it is, well, consciousness
was born inside biology.
Therefore, that's
where it should stay.
There's also an element
of truth in that.
But I think the third
way, the middle way
is the fact that those who
are diving into transhumanism
and wanting to live
in the metaverse
and hooking themselves
to Neuralink
and all this technology,
they're simply going to do it.
And I see so many people pushing
back against transhumanism
with a lack of love.
And if you ask any of
the great avatars--
Christ, Buddha, Avalokitesvara--
they would say there
is no space where
love does not belong.
We need to love people,
including their choices
and support them.
Not if they're trying to damage
the Earth, which a lot of this
actually is happening.
But--
>>GEORGE: Intentionally?
>>STEWART: I think, no.
I think it's not
intentional when
it comes to transhuman agenda.
I think the transhuman
agenda is actually a lot more
ancient than we would think.
I think it's as old as
language and mathematics.
And I can get into
that another time,
but that's when real artificial
intelligence started.
Simulated intelligence started.
Now, we have supercomputers
that can think faster
than any human.
So we're living in an
era where a lot of humans
are seeing there's a lot
of benefit to technology.
And the other side,
the other group
is seeing that there's also
a lot of downside to it.
Like I said at the
beginning, Popular Mechanics
said that 6G is going to
make us into antennas.
Literally, wrapping copper
wire into our clothing
so we can be antennas to suck
up waste energy from the power.
>>GEORGE: Which is
better than they would
do if they install towers.
>>STEWART: Technology
is changing.
It's so infused into our
system that even Bill Gates--
and I should say,
Microsoft has this kind
of like a cryptocurrency
that mines the crypto
from our cellular biology.
So a lot of where technology
is going is, in a sense,
colonizing us down to
the cellular level.
This is why a lot of people
are pushing back against it.
And this is that
split in humanity.
It's almost like we're
becoming two species.
The biological and
the transhuman.
>>GEORGE: Can we
win this battle?
>>STEWART: I don't know
if win is even the word.
>>GEORGE: Or succeed?
>>STEWART: Yes.
I mean, succeed is really by
finding a way for there not
to be a definitive loser here.
And that's the old story
where when one group wins,
it's at the expense
of another group.
The new story is really one
of the age of the artist.
The artist coming alive
inside of all people, meaning,
we find more creative ways
to move through this crisis
than the old ways.
Meaning, oh, well.
Some are going to survive and
some are going to pass on.
Some are going to have enough
food to eat, some aren't.
Well, that's really
coming from a fear state.
That's coming from a state
of a lack, a scarcity.
But when the artist
truly wakes up,
and that's the deepest code.
When we're talking
about unlocking codes,
the deepest code inside
of us is the artist.
Because it's unencumbered
by all of our conditioning
of the past.
It just causes us to open
up to the entire field
of possibility.
This is how we have
a win-win situation.
And we do make it through this.
And I won't go into my own
personal visions that I've had.
But having gone down
to the Amazon and--
>>GEORGE: You've
seen it all, Ben.
>>STEWART: Well,
I've seen what I
need to see for me to pass
on my gifts to others.
And having done Ayahuasca
in the Amazon that
is thousands of
years old, I kept
getting brought to this almost
like an invisible secret
society meeting.
It's a roundtable
with Mother Ayahuasca
beings from other dimensions,
whatever it might be.
And this doesn't
have to be literal.
But the way that this
vision kept coming to me
is a lot is going to be taken
away from humanity in order
to humble humanity.
>>GEORGE: Well, if we
deviate away from that, away
from the planet,
what becomes of us?
>>STEWART: We've
already deviated.
I mean, we're still
going to be human.
But we've already
deviated from nature.
Nature is inside us.
And it is, in a
sense, it's allowing
us to deviate from nature.
I think it's allowing us
to deviate from nature
and even allowing us to
violate nature in order
for the humbling that's coming.
I don't want to
overstate this, but I
want to make sure
people understand
that 12,000 years of history is
coming to a head this decade.
There's no way we're
getting out of this decade
without really
humbling ourselves
enough to see what we've
wrought upon this Earth and why.
This is another importance
of false awakenings.
We have to have
false awakening so we
can see how we become
deluded, how we believe
in things that make
us feel comfortable,
but that's not reality.
It's the old story.
>>GEORGE: Are we receiving
any help along the way?
>>STEWART: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: By whom?
>>STEWART: By ourselves
from the future.
>>GEORGE: Explain that.
>>STEWART: Have you
ever experienced
intuition inside your world?
>>GEORGE: All the time.
>>STEWART: Everything
around you is telling you
the world is this way,
and something inside you
is saying like, no.
It's actually this.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>STEWART: That
intuition is us using
this biological supercomputer.
I almost don't want to
call it a supercomputer.
But it's a beautiful
instrument that aspects of it
live outside of spacetime.
We already talked about DNA
drawing upon information
from outside spacetime.
We have this information
hub right here.
And we get help from ourselves.
You can call it the
future, our future selves.
But it's actually
our higher self
that lives outside spacetime.
And when you have that
whisper of intuition,
if you disobey it, it's
going to become quieter.
But if you listen to it, even
risky listening to it, meaning,
everyone is telling
you, this is dangerous,
but your intuition is telling
you, it's going to be fine
and it's also necessary.
That's your higher self saying,
this is a code you must unlock
and you are in the best
position to unlock it.
Everybody else is too afraid
to put the skin in the game.
>>GEORGE: They don't
want to take a chance.
What is source code, Ben?
>>STEWART: Source
code is-- a lot
of people would call it like
the original God's blueprint.
But I think it's
God's flashlight.
>>GEORGE: Explain that.
>>STEWART: It lights
the way forward for us.
Source code within us, when I
said, art is the deepest code,
I'm going to contradict
myself by saying,
source code is really
the deepest code.
The art code, it draws upon
source code and almost only
source code.
But source code is like
the 5-MeO-DMT state,
where all distinction
between different beings--
black, white, all those
differences, they go away.
And you're in pure love.
Pure unicity.
That's source code.
And when you access
that state, there
is nothing but clarity about
who you are, what your path is,
and what you're meant to do.
And then you also get
put into a flow state,
where it becomes effortless.
Your body seems to take over,
and some higher intelligence
carries you through.
And you can see this in
mothers who aren't deadlifting
800 pounds at the
gym, but they'll
lift a car that weighs 3,000
pounds off of their child.
>>GEORGE: If it
falls on their kid.
>>STEWART: That's
a code inside them.
>>GEORGE: Adrenaline
kicks in and--
>>STEWART: And their
knees aren't snapping.
But if they were to do
it without source code,
they would not be able to do it.
But it's source code
that tells them, OK, here
is a moment where you're
allowed this superpower.
But only in this moment.
Because when those
mothers go home,
they don't experience like
torn muscles or broken knees,
but they can't access it
again just to be like, hey,
look friends, here's--
>>GEORGE: Look what I did.
>>STEWART: --here's
what I can do.
I'm going to do it with
this car just for fun.
They couldn't do it then.
They can only do it
when Mother Earth says,
this is an allowable
time for that amount of--
>>GEORGE: Kicks in their
adrenaline and makes it happen.
>>STEWART: Yeah.
Yeah.
Through all of the
powers of what we are.
And we don't even know
what our bodies are.
>>GEORGE: What do we need
to go through as a society
to get to the end here?
>>STEWART: Humbling
and boundaries.
We need to go through a lesson.
Like we are children
coming of age.
We need to be humbled.
We need to see the
impact of our actions.
We need to see what
it does collectively.
We need to see what paying
this amount of money
for this product, which comes
from this country, which
destroys that ecosystem is
really doing to the planet.
We need to be humbled.
And as we're being humbled
over the next 10 to 15 years,
we are going to learn
real boundaries.
And it's just like children.
Children need boundaries.
They don't
intentionally destroy.
They're just trying
to discover and learn.
So they need their
elders to teach them
proper boundaries and humility.
That's all this is.
This story of our time, this old
story ending and this new story
beginning is really the story
of a species coming of age
and understanding our
highest human potential.
>>GEORGE: Pain comes
in various ways.
Physical, emotional.
Do you see it as a difference?
>>STEWART: Pain is a
purification process.
It's actually a protein
within our body.
And there's a
breathing exercise.
A "Wim Hof Breathing"
actually found out--
>>GEORGE: Good old Wim.
>>STEWART: He found that you
can do this hyperventilation
and you decouple
the pain protein.
So when you get in
an ice bath, you're
not experiencing the pain.
You still feel the cold but--
>>GEORGE: You feel the
cold, but it doesn't hurt.
>>STEWART: But it
doesn't hurt, which
is what makes the
edge so painful
that you want to get out.
I think we don't
need that lesson,
because we're all going
to be in an ice bath soon.
We need that lesson,
because we need
to understand that we're about
to experience a lot of pain.
And not all of it
is physical pain.
Some of it's going to be
emotional pain, spiritual pain.
But pain is a
purification process.
And in a sense,
karma, it's not just
this religious dogmatic
word that we use.
It's actually part
of source code.
Karma is this teaching.
It's a lesson that when
we do something in life,
it inscribes itself in our body.
And if we didn't
learn the lesson now,
it will hold onto
it for a later date.
And that pain will come back up.
And if we breathe through
it and simply allow it,
then pain will clear
the karmic debt.
If we don't, the
karmic debt gets worse.
So pain is intimately
linked with karma.
And the reason why that's really
good to understand right now
is because, as I
said, if we're going
to watch as millions,
maybe billions,
go without enough food and
go through mass migrations.
We're going to experience that
pain anthro-ontologically.
Meaning, we feel it
as if it's in living
in truth inside of us.
>>GEORGE: Where does
this all end for us, Ben?
>>STEWART: I don't
believe this ends.
I think the old
story ends, but only
as a catalyst to launch
us into the new story.
I will say that the biggest
thing that's ending right now
is this false belief that
what we have built this very
fragile system and
machine that we live in
can make it any farther.
The car's broke down, it's
dead on the side of the road,
and the longer we hold on hope
that we can revive the engine,
the longer we're going to
go without food and water
on the side of this road,
and it's going to get worse.
The sooner that our future
generations are liberated
from educational systems
that indoctrinate them
into a system that grinds the
gears of a growth economy,
the worse it's going to get.
The sooner we make schools
more about meditation,
community, the arts,
truly liberating ourselves
from old confines,
then the ending
is going to be a
lot more painful.
>>GEORGE: Thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief," Ben.
>>STEWART: It is a pleasure
to be back, George.
>>GEORGE: Ben feels there's
a hope for humanity.
And I believe that too.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]